---
sideNav: true
---

# A - D

## Access token

The credential authorising a developer to access the OTTO API.
An API consumer needs to request an access token as part of the OAuth 2.0 flow to access resources.

## API endpoint

The URL of a service used to access an API.

## ASCII

Short for _American Standard Code for Information Interchange_.
Describes a character set standard for text data and information exchange.

## Base64

[Base64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64) is a group of binary-to-text encoding schemes that represent binary data in an ASCII string format by translating it into a radix-64 representation.

## Bearer token

A [bearer token](https://oauth.net/2/bearer-tokens/) is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request.
The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources.

## Client ID

Public and randomly generated unique identifier for an application.

## Client Secret

Randomly generated, secret string known only to the application and the authorization server.
In combination with the Client ID used to get an access token to authorize with an API.

## Contract first

Contract First means that you do not start with an implementation and then document the result, but that the contract is first agreed, based on the OpenAPI specification, before starting to implement the API.

## CRUD operations

When designing APIs, we want our models to provide four basic types of functionality.
The model should be able to _Create_, _Read_, _Update_, and _Delete_ resources.
In programming, this is often referred to as CRUD operations.

## CURIE

Short for _Compact URI_.
[A CURIE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CURIE) defines a generic, abbreviated syntax for expressing Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs).
A Curie is an abbreviated URI expressed in a compact syntax, and may be found in both XML and non-XML grammars.
A CURIE may be considered a datatype.
