---
sideNav: true
---

# E - H

## ETag

Short for _entity tag_.
An [ETag](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/ETag) is an identifier for a specific version of a resource.
It lets caches be more efficient and save bandwidth, as a web server does not need to resend a full response if the content has not changed.
Additionally, ETags help prevent simultaneous updates of a resource from overwriting each other.

## Filtering

The use of query parameters to filter the items returned in an API response.

## gzip

[Gzip](https://varvy.com/) is a method of compressing files (making them smaller) for faster network transfers.
Compression allows the web server to provide smaller file sizes which load faster for your website users.
The same applies for non-website requests and responses as well as for API calls.

## HAL

Short for _Hypertext Application Language_.
[HAL](http://stateless.co/hal_specification.html) provides a set of conventions for expressing hyperlinks in either JSON or XML.
It is simple format that gives a consistent and easy way to hyperlink between resources in an API.

## HATEOAS

Short for _Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State_.
As the architectural style of REST is supposed to provide a universal interface, HATEOAS requires that the REST client can move through the web application exclusively by following URIs (Uniform Resource Identifier) in hypermedia format.
If HATEOAS is implemented, the client does not need any further information apart from a basic understanding of hypermedia in order to interact with the service.

## Herakles

Self-service portal for the OTTO API Authentication Server.

## Hostname

A [Hostname](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hostname) is a label assigned to a device connected to a computer network and that is used to identify the device in various forms of electronic communication.


