---
sideNav: true
---

# Q - T

## RESTful

According to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) requests made to a resource's URI will elicit a response with a payload formatted in HTML, XML, JSON, or some other format.
The response can confirm that some alteration has been made to the resource state, and the response can provide hypertext links to other related resources.
By using a stateless protocol and standard operations, RESTful systems aim for fast performance, reliability, and the ability to grow by reusing components that can be managed and updated without affecting the system as a whole, even while it is running.

## Resource

[A resource](https://restful-api-design.readthedocs.io/en/latest/resources.html#:~:text=The%20fundamental%20concept%20in%20any,methods%20that%20operate%20on%20it.&text=Collections%20can%20exist%20globally%2C%20at,contained%20inside%20a%20single%20resource.) is an object with a type, associated data, relationships to other resources, and a set of methods that operate on it.
It is similar to an object instance in an object-oriented programming language, with the important difference that only a few standard methods are defined for the resource (corresponding to the standard HTTP GET, POST, PUT and DELETE methods), while an object instance typically has many methods.

## Resource representation

A [resource representation](https://restfulapi.net/#:~:text=A%20representation%20consists%20of%20data,representation%20is%20to%20be%20processed) is the state of the resource at any particular timestamp.
It consists of data, metadata describing the data and hypermedia links which can help the clients in transition to the next desired state.

## SDK

Short for _Software Development Kit_.
Helpful resources for software developers, such as documentation, tools, or libraries.

## TTFHW

Short for _Time To First Hello World_.
In case of an API this means, in order for it to be widely used, it needs to be easy to adopt.
By making clear what we do, providing accurate documentation, and tooling, it's easy for consumers to reach their goal.
